>> Hey, guys.
We're on our way right now to
San Diego to learn about Kambo.
Kambo is a secretion that comes
from the Amazonian tree frog,
known as Phyllomedusa bicolor.
So legend has it that it
all began in a village
in the Amazon jungle, where
everyone was incredibly sick
and none of the traditional
medicines worked.
The shaman drinks ayahuasca,
a psychedelic brew,
and has these
visions that the tree
frog will help cure everyone.
So he sets off into the
jungle, finds his tree frog,
collects its secretion,
and administers it
to his whole village, which
then made everyone throw up,
and miraculously,
everyone's cured.
We're going to meet with Caitlin
Thompson, who is a practitioner
and has actually
used Kambo to treat
autoimmune disorders and a lot
of gut imbalances and bacteria
issues.
All right, we're here.
The things we were told
would harm us are actually
proving to do the opposite.
Drugs like MDMA, mushrooms,
marijuana, LSD, and ayahuasca
are helping resolve
serious mental issues.
Join us as we explore
for ourselves the healing
powers of weed, psychedelics,
and other mindful practices.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[DOGS BARKING]
>> Hi.
>> Hey.
>> Sorry.
>> Whoa, dogs.
Hi.
>> How's it going?
>> Great to see you.
>> Welcome.
>> Thank you.
>> I'm just finishing
prepping our dinner.
You want to help?
>> Yeah.
>> Cool.
>> So how did you
come across Kambo?
>> So my whole life I've been
in a lot of physical pain,
always had really
severe fatigue,
and I knew from the beginning
that there was something not
right.
So a friend told me that he
had been working with this frog
medicine.
And I said, oh, that
sounds interesting,
and I was intrigued.
So I went with
him to a ceremony.
It was deep.
It was profound.
And it initiated this
unwinding process
that I really am
looking and seeing
that it's taken years
to fully unfold.
>> What other issues
can it help address?
>> It's been really good
for autoimmune conditions,
kind of across the board,
for metabolic problems,
any sort of inflammatory
illness, so diabetes,
Crohn's, candida overgrowth,
depression, anxiety,
chronic pain, fibromyalgia,
things of that sort.
>> When I talked to
you on the phone,
and you talked about how it
had helped you with your gut
issues, like, mine's
definitely been out of whack.
And I would love to put it
in whack and get it to work.
>> Yeah, Kambo is great
for all of those things.
It's really an effective
tool for shaking up
when we're stuck, whether
it's emotional or physical.
So I think you'll have
good luck with it.
>> Sweet.
Sounds good.
I think I'm ready.
>> Yeah, let's do this.
>> Lead the way.
What's going to happen
to my stomach with this?
>> Yeah, so there's a lot
of microorganisms that live
in the GI tract, called the
microbiome, and it's a very,
very complex ecology, just
like the rainforest is.
And sometimes when species of
bacteria can become overgrown
and they start contributing
to disease or sickness
in the body, and Kambo is great
at just [MIMICS EXPLOSION]
dropping a bomb
on the microbiome
and killing off a lot of
these pathogenic bacteria that
can make us sick or inflamed.
Are you ready to
set your intention?
>> My intention is to clear
out any blockages that are just
slowing me down in life and
stopping me from doing all
the magical stuff I want to do
as efficiently as I want to do
it, and be that addressing
my skin and depression.
But I want to keep it simple.
>> One thing at a time.
>> One thing at a time--
get rid of the blockages.
We don't need those.
>> Wonderful.
All right, so now, while
I get this medicine going,
I'm going to have you drink
basically as much water
as you can tolerate until
you get to the point
where you feel like you're going
to barf just from the water.
>> Cheers.
>> To trying new things.
>> Hey.
>> The water really acts as a
substrate to help toxins that
are being pulled out of tissues
and deposited into the stomach
for removal.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm going to get
the rest of this down.
I can do it.
Maybe I can do it.
I don't know.
>> I'm going to put three
burns on the back of your neck,
and I'll apply the medicine.
And within about 30
seconds to a minute,
you'll start to
feel the effects.
The whole experience
will probably
be done with in about
20 to 30 minutes.
A deep breath in,
and push it out.
>> [SHUDDERS] Oh, ow.
>> I felt really called
to provide this experience
to other people because I just
saw how amazingly healing it
was.
It's really an effective
tool for shaking up
when we're stuck, whether
it's emotional or physical.
[CHANTING]
>> So it starts with your
heart beating really fast,
and then I began to sweat,
and my fingers were tingling.
My throat was kind of
closing up and tightening.
>> [CHANTING]
>> It's really better to sit up?
I feel like I want to lie down.
>> Yeah, just trust me.
Sitting up is good.
>> Because it is.
>> Yeah.
[CHIMES]
>> Though one would think the
secretion of a jungle frog
would give you hallucinations,
it does nothing of the sort.
This is purely a physical
experience and not
a pleasant one at that.
[CHIMES]
>> That's it.
There.
(SINGING) When you let go of
fear, the truth will appear.
There, good.
>> There was just this,
like-- at the beginning,
it was really intense,
kind of closing up feeling,
and my face feels swollen.
>> You've got a little
bit of froggy face.
>> Mm.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Thank you to the frog that
so generously provides us with
these gifts.
In gratitude, aho.
>> Aho.
>> I always like to look
at people's barf with them
afterwards.
You know, it's kind of
like looking at clouds
and finding animals--
no, just kidding.
And then these fuzzies,
these little fuzzy things--
>> I think it's a
Rice Krispie treat.
>> It's not a Rice Krispie
treat because I see this.
This is common, and everybody
has these little fuzzies.
You have quite a
dark color, which
indicates to me that you
might have some heavy metal
toxicity or some toxins that
balance your bile that are fat
soluble--
because the bile stores toxins
and then kind of recycles them
over and over because the
bile gets reused by the body.
There's a lot of ideas about
what the vomit can tell us,
but you certainly
have a darker vomit,
which makes me think that we got
a lot of good stuff out today.
>> Cool.
>> Yeah.
>> Good.
>> So yeah, there you have it.
>> All right.
>> Barfology.
>> [LAUGHS]
I know taking a frog medicine
that makes you throw up
sounds pretty trippy, but
there were absolutely no
psychedelic effects.
Yet still, many credit Kambo
for having changed their life.
It's a little too
soon for me to say,
but the next day,
I did find myself
having some serious moments of
insight and a sense of clarity
I didn't have before.
The next week, my skin
started clearing up.
Throwing up isn't
exactly a party,
but I'd say the after
effects are worth it,
and I will be doing it again.
[MUSIC PLAYING]